Alright, let's, uh, go ahead
and jump in and get ready, uh,
to hear from the Word today.
Um, I don't know about you, but, um,
each and every week that we get to
jump into the Word, I'm always excited.
And there's a reason why I'm excited,
and it's because I've spent a whole
week hearing what you're gonna hear.
And like, one, going through the,
the, what we call the process of,
like, our thinking, where we hear
it, and we don't want to hear it.
And then we hear it, and
then we go, I need this.
I need to hear it.
And then we hear it, and then we
accept it, and then we hear it,
and then we go, this is good.
See, that happens in my week, but then
I get to come, and I'll be like, hey,
I'm presenting a message that God has
given, where you're gonna hear it.
And I know for some of you, I'm praying
through this message, you're gonna hear
it, and you're gonna go, oh, this hurts.
And you're gonna hear it, and
you're gonna go, oh, I need this.
And you're going to hear it, and
you're going to go, I'm accepting this.
And you're going to leave out of here,
and you're going to begin to live it.
That, that's my prayer every week.
That's my desire every week.
And so I'm hoping today that you
will get that from this message.
Um, and so today we're going to
be finishing up our mini series
in the book of Matthew chapter 7.
We've been in just chapter
7, uh, in this mini series.
And so the last part of it
is verses 24 through 29.
So that's where we're going to be if
you want to turn that, uh, into your
Bibles you can, or on your phones, or
it'll be behind us here in a minute.
But it's the last part of
Jesus's Sermon on the Mount.
Um, and we begin to look at how Jesus
has been teaching all of his disciples
and those who came to hear the sermon
about how to live in the Kingdom of God.
How to live in the Kingdom of God, how to
follow after God and, you know, things in
which we are to prioritize and, and to...
It kind of ends up being a little bit...
It's to live, right?
And so today, Jesus final statement is
really this statement, that the storms in
our life will reveal our true foundation.
The storms in our life will
reveal our true foundation.
Um, and, and I think it's
going to be a convicting one
because it was convicting to me.
Um, and, uh, I know that
it was beneficial for me.
So here, here, let me ask this question.
Who here has ever built?
A home.
Anybody here built a home?
Okay, we got like one person.
Great.
Anybody here ever had a home
that had a poor foundation?
Wow, so you guys are, I
get to teach you today.
Okay, so there's some signs
to a poor foundation in a
home that's called cracking.
And maybe some of you
are going to go, crap.
I have a poor foundation and this message
is going to help you go get some help
within your house, literally your house.
Um, but when we look at our
walls, we see cracking, we begin
to see cracking on our ceiling.
And what we begin to think with that is
we think, we don't think poor foundation.
We think, I need to mud
and tape and paint this.
And so if you're anything like me,
we don't ever do it because we,
it's one of those to do lists that
are never on the list that I do.
Um, but we don't ever think
anything about it, but maybe you do.
You kind of patch it and paint it and you
don't see anything for a while and all of
a sudden there's more cracks and there's
more cracks and there's more cracks.
And when you begin to have an
expert come out, you realize that
there is a poor foundation under
your home, right under your home.
And so because of that, we can't just
keep ignoring the poor foundation.
We have to address it.
So now let's move that
into our practical lives.
There's cracks in our home.
There's cracks in our personal life.
In our family life, and for those of
us in our ministry life as well, and
how we live out our faith in Christ.
And that could be cracks just in
our marriage, uh, that could be
cracks in just our, uh, our job,
um, and friendships in society.
And those cracks are there
to show you something.
It's to show you that you
may have a poor foundation.
And, and here is my hope and
prayer, is that either today...
You won't see cracks in your life
because you have a firm foundation.
Or maybe you'll realize that the cracks
that are in your life are a sign that
your foundation is not in Christ.
And that you need that.
That there's a hope in Jesus to help you.
Right?
And so, again, I want
you to ask this question.
What are, uh, what in the foundation
of my life needs to be fixed so
that I don't keep doing patchwork?
On the cracks in my life.
So let's read this text
and dive deep into it.
So here it is again, Matthew
chapter seven, starting in verse 24.
It says, therefore, everyone who
hears these words of mine and acts
on them will be like a wise man
who built his house on the rock.
The rain fell, the rivers rose,
and the winds blew and pounded that
house, yet it didn't collapse because
its foundation was on the rock.
But everyone who hears these
words of mine and doesn't act on
them will be like a foolish man
who built his house on the sand.
The rain fell, and the rivers rose,
and the winds blew and pounded
that house, and it collapsed.
And it collapsed with a great...
Crash.
And when Jesus had finished saying
these things, the crowds were
astonished at his teaching because
he was teaching to them like one who
had authority, not like the scribes.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we ask, Lord, that you
take this word and that you pour it
deep into our hearts, Lord, that it
doesn't just sit there in our hearts,
Lord, but it begins to transform our
lives and that we leave here changed
for our good and for your glory.
We pray this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
So, when we look at this story, what
we begin to see is a picture of two
different men or two different people.
Uh, because he uses these words, anyone
who hears these words, and then he begins
to describe two men, one that built a
home that was poor and one that didn't.
Right.
And so we're going to kind of look at this
story back and forth at these two men.
So two different men are two different
people, two different outcomes.
But the thing that we're going to focus
on the first is what they had in common.
What they had in common.
And so the things that we see here
is we look at what they had in
common is, uh, they had in common
that they were building a home.
They were building a home.
They had a goal.
They had a dream that they want to
build this beautiful, amazing home.
And when we begin to look at just in
the Bible and we begin to think of like
a house, there's a couple of different
things that you're going to hear in
the Bible that's referred to a house.
Typically it's going to
be like your self, right?
Your temple, your house.
So personally, you're going to
hear the home, the house, and then
typically you'll even hear things
like the ministry or culture, um,
the, the society of building a house.
And so today we're just going to kind
of focus on, on the personal, the, the
home, and then also within our ministry.
And so the first thing that we see here is
when we're talking about building a house,
we're talking about building a life.
And so these two men may not be talking
about a physical house, but really could
be talking about their personal lives.
So personally, they want
to achieve something.
They want to achieve success.
Maybe they want to, if we're thinking
spiritually here, they want to succeed or
achieve a great relationship with Christ.
If it comes to a family, maybe
these two men were wanting to build
a home, uh, in their home, right?
They wanted to build a successful
family, one that was fruitful, one
that had kids that actually loved
them and loved to come back when they
had kids and hang around their house.
Maybe it was a ministry that
they were talking about.
That they wanted to build a
successful ministry or a church.
They wanted to invest in people and
they wanted to expand God's kingdom.
So they both started with
the desire to build a house.
So at the beginning of this journey, my
guess, as I begin to dive into this, is
that they both wanted to be successful.
I mean, does anybody in here
ever start a project that they
want to be unsuccessful at?
Anybody?
Noah.
I knew there was going to be somebody.
There's always that one person, right?
Um, but most of us don't do that.
We, we want to be successful.
So I'm really wanting us to just dive
into the heart of this story and the fact
that these guys had great intentions.
They wanted to be successful.
So again, when you're thinking about
personally, they didn't want...
To fail personally.
They didn't want to fail in their personal
life and their personal walk with Jesus.
They wanted to be successful.
They didn't want to fail in their
family and have divorce and brokenness.
They wanted to be successful.
They didn't want to
fail in their ministry.
They wanted to have successful ministry,
but, Really, when you look at it, they,
They may end up having a poor ministry.
Because of their foundation.
So, they started at that same place.
The next thing you see here
and I love this part, They
both heard the message, right?
It says, Everyone who hears these
words, And acts on them is a wise
man, and everyone who hears these
words and doesn't act them is a fool.
So, two men heard the same message.
The same message.
Sat in the same church.
Heard the same message.
Right?
They sat under good
preaching and teaching.
Right?
They heard the message.
But two different men
responded two different ways.
Right?
And I want you to think about this.
This word, therefore.
We usually talk about
this word, therefore.
When you see the word, therefore, it's...
What is it there for?
It's talking about everything
that Jesus got done talking
about in the Sermon on the Mount.
Right?
So when he kind of summarizes this
sermon, Jesus is saying, everything that
I've shared, therefore, anyone who hears
these words and acts on them is wise.
So what was the therefore?
So both of these men sat under
the truth of God's word, right?
Some of the things I just
want to highlight them.
Here's some things that Jesus
taught some of his followers
during the sermon on the mountain.
Number one, don't worry, but
seek first the kingdom of God.
Don't judge before you take.
Basically, the log out of your eye
before you begin to help other people.
He says to ask and to seek and
to knock when you need something,
because God will respond.
He responded, he communicated to them
that the narrow road leads to life and
the wide road leads to destruction.
He challenged them to guard
themselves against false teaching.
So all of these things, the therefore
these men would have heard, right?
Think about this.
These men are sitting here.
And they're hearing these things.
They sat under the same truth.
Both of them sat under the same truth.
So they had the goal to
build a successful home.
Again, maybe it wasn't an actual home.
Maybe it was their personal life,
their family life, their ministry.
They had sat under the same teaching.
Maybe they sat next to each
other and heard the same truths.
The last thing that we see that
they had in common was the storm.
They both went through
the same storm, right?
And, and I've heard this statement
before is that everyone is either going
into a storm, they're in the midst of a
storm, and coming out of one maybe, or
they're getting ready to go into one.
So, one of the things I begin to
think about here is none of us are
absent from the storms of life.
None of us.
It doesn't matter if
you're good or you're bad.
It doesn't matter if you're evil
or, you know, you're perfect.
It doesn't matter who you are, what
you look like, how old you are.
You will.
Have storms and both of
these men had that in common.
So because we understand the things
they had in common, we could easily
see that both of them felt like that.
They were heading into a
successful building project, right?
Successful building project, but
there was something different.
And that's the thing I want
us to look at now, right?
There's something different, you know,
one of them made a wise choice and
one of them made a foolish choice.
And I really want to talk about this.
He talks about the wise
person and the foolish person.
So we have to kind of define what is
a wise person and a foolish person.
So, when we look at what a wise
person is, a wise person applies
spiritual truth to life's decisions.
A wise person applies spiritual
truth to life's decision.
An unwise person, or a foolish person,
has the inability or refuses to apply
spiritual truth to life's decisions.
They refuse to.
Simple as that.
One applies spiritual truth
to their life, one doesn't.
And so that's why it's important for
us to even remember, as we kind of
stop and reflect on this, that it's
not the truths you know that matter.
It's not the knowledge you have
that matters, but the truth and
the knowledge in which you act on.
You obey.
You follow.
Those are the only ones that
will ever make a decision, or
make an impact on your life.
The only ones.
And so in particular in this
situation, the foundation was the
biggest mistake that one of them made.
They had the ability to look at their
lives and start with the right foundation.
It may sound like one
small thing, but it's not.
And just to kind of even give you some
examples, so, we are in a community that
has been building homes all around us.
So we had our house built, and there's
houses being built all around us.
And here's one of the things that I know.
Their foundation is made up of concrete.
They literally go in
and they pour concrete.
But one of the things that I noticed
is that they kind of, once they pour
this concrete, they kind of put all
these little things around it so
that nobody touches the concrete.
And here's the thing, they don't go
back and build on it the next day.
They wait days.
Does anybody know why?
Let it cure.
Because if they were to build on
it too early, what may happen?
It may crumble.
And so they put these barriers up because
they want to make sure that they are going
to build on a solid and a firm foundation.
One of these men was patient, the
other one was not patient, right?
And so when we think about this
foundation, right, within our
lives, what does that look like?
And so they had in common, again,
that they were building, even what
we say is the same thing, the same
house, the same personal life, the
same ministry, the same family.
They're building the same thing, but
they both didn't start at the same place.
So let's look at where
one of them started.
Right.
He talks about the wise man here
who built his house on the rock.
So the wise man chose a
different place to build.
And when you think about
the rock, it is difficult to
build your foundation on rock.
Why?
Because there's a lot more work involved.
There's a lot more cost involved.
It'd be slower to be able
to build on that rock.
I, I, I'm a kind of a history guy and
I love listening to history podcasts
and I listen to, uh, this history, uh,
podcast where they were talking about
the railroad whenever they were, uh,
was a transcontinental railroad, right?
And I love history and there comes
a point where they come to these
mountains that they can't go over.
So they go through them.
And I remember listening to how they
went through them and they would
call it success if they got through
10 to 15 feet of rock a day success.
It was not a fast pace.
Now if they were out on flat
ground and there was nothing
going on, they could just fly.
But when it came to those mountains,
they had to go through them.
And it took so much time and effort.
So one guy chose to do the hard work.
One guy chose to build on sand.
Anybody ever built a sandcastle?
Although they typically fall, which kind
of hints at what we're talking about here.
They're pretty easy to build, and
the fact that, like, you can just
go, like, sand's there, let's go.
We just build it and we go, but what
happens is quickly the waves come
up and crash on that sand castle.
So the sand would have been easier for the
foolish guy, right, to start immediately.
It didn't cost much to be able
to build that home on there.
So I would get me to think about
just foundation in general.
And so anybody ever studied
about how skyscrapers are built?
Do you know that the majority of
their time and efforts built below
the ground, not above the ground?
Now we look at these massive things
that are built and we want to just,
ah, but they spent so much time,
effort and money to build lower first.
It's called foundation.
Sometimes they go as deep as 250 feet
to make sure that they have a firm
foundation before they ever build on top.
Is anybody catching my drift here?
Is anybody catching what the
word of God here is saying about
our lives and how important it
The firm foundation is, right?
So they started at the same
place, meaning like they had the
dream of building a home, right?
They had the word of God, but yet both
of them chose to start at a different
place, where their foundation started.
And I started just even
thinking about this.
Just think about maybe this room,
that these two men or these two
people could be in this room.
You may be sitting there today
and even thinking about this.
You could be in this room.
And you're hearing the Word of God today.
You're hearing the Word of God today.
And it's a hard truth to understand
this, that if we're hearing, any of
us, including myself, if we're hearing
this Word today, and we are walking
away, and ignoring the Word, the
Bible clearly says that we are fools.
Now that sounds harsh.
Does anybody think that sounds unharsh?
If somebody walked up to you and called
you a fool, I probably would punch them.
But the Bible says, what
is a foolish person?
It's one who doesn't apply spiritual
truths to life's decisions.
So it's not being mean or
rude, it's being truthful.
Because sometimes truth hurts.
So if we take this word today,
and we don't apply it to our
lives, we're being foolish.
But if we take this word and
we apply it, we are being wise.
And just so you know, there's been
times where I've sat under the
word, and I've heard it, and I've
walked away and I've ignored it.
And it didn't bring value to me,
and typically what would happen
is when I did not add that to
my life, that there were issues.
There was things that I regretted
and wished I would have followed.
So I think we have moments
like that in our life.
But some of us are constantly
living our lives this way.
And so when we think about the issues
or the, going back to the foundation,
the cracks in our life, the reason why
we aren't addressing those issues in
our lives is because acting on God's
word is not a priority in our life.
Listening is.
I'm going to say that again.
One of the main reasons why we continue to
have cracks, and we just try to hopefully
cover them up, and we don't address
the deep down issues of our foundation,
is because we would rather listen to
the Word of God, than to act on it.
That's tough.
Think about it.
It's easier to just, I'm just
going to kind of walk through this.
It's easier to listen to your
Christian music, It's easier to,
I'm not against Christian mission,
by the way, I love it, um, it's
easier to listen to a pastor preach.
It, it, it's easy to listen
to, to us each week talk about
the importance of community,
getting inspired, inspire groups.
It's easy for you to listen that, that
you need to give your life to Jesus,
that it will transform your life.
It's easy to listen to that.
And even kind of inside,
internally, desire that.
But to act on it is hard.
It's hard.
I would say that for most of us, action
is one of the hardest things in our faith.
So let's talk about that.
Action is the key to a wise life.
That's what this story is saying.
Action is a key to a wise life, right?
So the word of God is powerful and active.
Some of you are going to have to
really theologically think about this.
The word of God is powerful
and active when we move.
Don't believe me?
Let's talk about the Bible.
So Moses, what did God say?
Lift up your staff, and the sea parted.
What did he tell the priests that
were going to go into the promised
land, but they had this, you
know, river that was overflowing,
that they had to walk through?
He told them that you have to put
every one of your feet in the water,
and until every foot is in the
water, That water will not recede.
And it took the last priest to put
the last foot in the water, even
though it was a crazy river happening.
And the moment that happened,
the water began to move.
What about Mary?
I think this is a fun one to
begin to study about this.
What about Mary?
You know, Jesus came to, to
raise Lazarus from the dead.
And what did he tell Mary?
Remove the rock.
It's those moments where God
wants to work in our lives.
He so desires to, and His
Word communicates that He
wants to work in your life.
But we are refusing to act on that
Word, to experience what God has for us.
Amen.
I'll say amen.
That was good.
I think all of us need that.
Right?
So, why does the power of God's
Word wait until we have to move?
It's, it's this right here.
It waits for action so that walking
by faith, that we're walking
by faith, not talking by faith.
That we're walking by faith,
not just talking by faith.
James 1.
22 says, be doers of the
word, not just hearers.
To be doers of the word, not just hearers.
And let me just kind of line up
here so I can quickly address
anybody that would say, are you
preaching a works based salvation?
Absolutely not.
Jesus changes our lives because we
accept his sacrifice on the cross.
At that moment, the Spirit of God
lives inside of us, which transforms
our life to act differently.
Not because we have to, but because
God so loves us that the Spirit of
God won't let us sit and not act.
I hope you're hearing what
I believe the Bible clearly
communicates about salvation.
And what a follower of
Jesus does after salvation.
So this wise man, again, he built
and acted on the Word of God, right?
He heard from the Word
of God and he responded.
But many of us today, we may
not be letting the Word of God
guide and direct our lives.
And we sometimes even refuse to allow
God's Word to be applied to our lives.
We'll say statements like this.
I've said statements like this before.
God, use me.
God, change me.
God, send me.
But we refuse to move forward and I
want to give you guys an example that
you may have heard before you ever
hear About the guy that was stuck on
the roof of his house during a flood.
Now again, this is a Story, I don't
think this is a real story, right?
But it's a story that kind of
gives you the example here.
He's sitting on this house and he
begins to pray intently Lord save me a
Couple hours later a rowboat pulls up.
Hey jump in he says nope I prayed
and God said, He's going to save me.
I believe it in faith.
I'm good.
Guy drives off.
Another boat comes up.
Hey, jump in.
I'll save you.
And he says, No, I'm good.
I prayed.
God's going to save me.
The last one was a helicopter.
I said, Come on.
Grab onto the rope,
we'll pull you to safety.
No, I believe in God,
God is gonna save me.
Well, guess what happened?
The floods rose, he died, went to heaven,
and said, God, why didn't you save me?
And here's specifically
what his words were, right?
What more did you expect?
I sent you a helicopter and two boats.
Sometimes in life, we want
more than the word of God.
It's almost like when there were
people in Jesus time, it was like,
just show us one more miracle.
I need just one more.
Just give me one more.
And Jesus is like, I
could show you a million.
And that wouldn't change your heart until
you act on the faith and what I've already
presented, you'll experience no more.
Glad you guys are just
enjoying this message today.
Maybe you're, it's doing
the same thing it did to me.
It's getting down deep into our
hearts and it's challenging our faith.
It's challenging our faith.
I want to share with you guys just a
couple of personal examples because
I think this really matches up.
I lived in the world consistently
and have at times this world
of faith without action.
I'll just give you my personal
testimony a little bit where, uh, I
remember sitting under the Word of
God for a solid year of the church.
And I remember finally starting to
break down some of the barriers and
hearing some of the truths of God.
And I remember hearing it over and
over and again and I kept wondering
why my life wasn't changing.
And there came a point where the Lord
inside of me, He began to just convict me.
It's because you haven't moved.
You haven't acted.
You haven't professed me.
And so I remember a Sunday
night, we came back to service.
We never went to Sunday night service.
But when we went there, there was 20
people in an auditorium of about 800,
which means you can't hide in there.
And when the pastor says, does
anyone want to give their lives
to Christ, my hand went up.
At that point, I knew I had to act.
And let me just tell you that
the moment that I act, my life
was so transformed, wasn't it?
And was it perfect?
Did I act every time?
No, there was times
where I struggled to act.
But then over and over again, God
continually challenges us to act.
I acted by following through
with Believer's Baptism.
I acted by getting more committed to
our church, and becoming a member, and
serving, and growing in my faith by
daily getting in the Word, and at times,
daily rejecting the Word because I didn't
like it, but then at times accepting it.
I remember our call
here to church planning.
I remember sitting there in 2018, I
started thinking through this, 2018,
I called it spiritual discontentment.
In the midst of spiritual discontentment
was this wrestling of not wanting
to act because what we had was good.
We had comfort.
We had family.
We had our future home that we thought we
were going to live in and raise our kids.
We were comfortable, but the
spirit of God kept convicting.
And he says, I want to build your life.
Where's your foundation?
Is it in your comfort?
And we had to come to the
conclusion that God was sending us.
And it is hard to surrender.
It is hard to say yes, but I'm going
to tell you on the other side of yes,
it's a blessing and an experience
with God that you can't even imagine.
You can't even imagine.
And so I would say this.
The hardest part of faith, the hardest
part of our faith is taking that step
after hearing from the Word of God.
I, I believe this.
I believe, because I don't know
everybody in this room, but I believe
many of you hear from the Word of God.
I believe many of you sit here on a Sunday
morning and you hear the Word of God and
inside you are welling up because you
want, you want to take a step of faith.
I believe it.
But many of us will leave here.
And the further we get
away from the Word of God.
We refuse to take that step
because we're afraid of the
sacrifice that we'll have to take.
We're afraid of the change that's
gonna have to happen in our lives.
But I'll just tell you, it's worth it.
It is 100% worth it.
So not fully knowing what's on the other
side of our yes makes us struggle to say
yes to what God is challenging us to do.
One of the things that I know I struggle
with as a believer is, what if I fail?
And I've learned this over and over again.
I had a friend that went with
us to Ghana, West Africa, and my
past church to a mission trip.
And she said, you know what
got me to go on this trip?
Realizing that I can't fail.
Because if God is sending me, God is the
one that is going to make this thing work.
Not me.
And was able to help her have
the faith to take the step.
Because she knew it wasn't on her.
And so I just want to share with
you as a church, I really want
to challenge you with the church.
There's times where I begin to look at
where our church is, you know, we're two
and a half years into launching, three
and a half years since our families moved
here, and I look at where our church is.
We're in a great space and we
have a good group of people.
I mean, look around.
This is some beautiful people here.
Right?
I'm just trying to encourage you.
Um, but we have some great, amazing
people, but there's a sense inside of me
that many of us in this room are missing
out on experiencing what God has for us.
Amen.
Because of our unwillingness
to take a next step.
One of our biggest challenges as a
leadership, and you're gonna continue
to hear more about this, is we want
everybody in this church, every single
person that we know to take a next step.
I don't care if that's to, to faith,
to, to baptism, to coming into
an inspire group, to serving, to
going out and living your faith,
out to being in the word every day.
We want everybody to take a
next step because we believe
God's called us to action.
Amen.
And that's something that I have
a desire and passion to see.
Our leadership has a desire and passion to
see God has a passion to see you do this.
But what we're gonna have to ask ourselves
this question is where is our foundation?
Is it in what we can control?
Or is it in Christ and what knowing
that he controls everything?
He controls everything.
When I think about giving our lives to
Christ I think about this, that He says
that we are to surrender our lives to Him.
Then He says this, we
were bought with a price.
Jesus dying on the cross, and us accepting
His payment for our sins, purchased us.
And we are now His, which
means we do His will.
What did we talk about last week?
We are called to do
the will of the Father.
And so God is challenging us
through this word in this.
But here's what we realize, if you're
wondering, well, I think I have a good
solid foundation, and I believe I do,
and I think I built on the right place
and on the right ground, how do we know?
Well, I would say this, the
storms of our life truly reveal
where our foundation is, right?
Both of them built a home.
And when you begin to look at it and
tell it rained, they may have really
thought that they both were successful.
Both made it.
We built the home we wanted
to, the family, the life, the
ministry that we wanted to.
It's great.
Things are flourishing.
Until the storm came.
The same storm hit them.
And if you really look at these
terms, it's rain, it's, uh, lots
of flooding, and, uh, lots of wind.
This is a hurricane.
Those are some of the worst storms.
So you may say, well, I've had some
small storms and everything's worked out.
It's the big storms of life that will
really help you determine whether
your foundation was in Christ or not.
So here's the question when
we look at these two stories.
One, it says his life was solid, right?
He was on the solid foundation
and it wasn't wrecked.
But one, it says that his house
collapsed and it was with a great crash.
Why do you believe that God allows
storms to come into your life?
To make you stronger?
Anybody else?
To find your weaknesses?
Yeah?
I want you to turn to him.
All those are great reasons why.
God doesn't do it
because, oh, he hates me.
He allows storms to come because He wants
you to know where you stand in your faith.
He doesn't want you to wonder.
He wants you to know.
And those storms typically point us
to Christ and to His need, right?
So these storms are designed to reveal
where we stand, with a firm foundation
or not, where we stand in our faith,
with a solid faith or a lack of faith.
So God already knows
where your foundation is.
The question is, do we?
And I want to read this last story to you
in Luke, chapter 8, verses 22 through 25.
They're going to be on the screen here.
And I want to read this because
it's talking about the disciples
going through a storm, right?
Going through a storm,
here's the crazy part.
Going through a storm with
Jesus physically in the boat.
So you would think, hey, we're good.
And most of you, if you've read the
Bible before, or maybe you grew up
in the church, you know this story.
But if not, Let this be
new and speak to you today.
So Luke 8, 22 through 25, it says
this, One day he, speaking of Jesus,
and his disciples got into the
boat, and he told them, let's cross
over to the other side of the lake.
So they set out, and as they
were sailing, he fell asleep.
And then a fierce windstorm came
down on the lake, and they were
being swamped, and were in danger.
And they came and they woke
him up, and they said, Master,
Master, we're going to die.
And then he got up and he rebuked
the wind and the raging waves.
And so they ceased, and there was a calm.
And he said to them, Where is your faith?
And they were fearful and amazed,
asking one another, Who then is this?
He commands even the winds and
the waves, and they obey him.
Let's think about this story for a minute.
This group of guys who follow
Jesus from the outside perspective,
they were followers of Jesus.
And in this moment, maybe they
were, maybe they weren't, I'm not
really here to determine that.
But they were following Jesus.
And Jesus said, we're going to get
in the boat and go on the other side.
Simple enough, we got in the boat.
And everything was fine until
the boat started rocking.
And the wind started coming.
But one of the key things
here is Jesus was sleeping.
Jesus was sleeping.
And I think when we think about this,
anybody ever get angry whenever somebody's
sitting down on the couch and you're
cleaning up after and you're like, what
are you doing over there sitting down?
You should get up and help me.
I've never said that.
And I've never sat on the couch either.
Okay.
Glad my wife's in the...
here today.
Keep me honest.
So, we all know maybe what
these disciples were feeling.
Jesus, where are you?
Now, here's the question.
You ever been in the middle of a
storm and asked that same question?
Jesus, where are you?
Why aren't you here with me?
I don't see you anywhere.
Why haven't you stopped the storm?
And they come to Jesus and they're
waking him up and he just looks at them.
It's kind of one of those, like,
annoying looks, and then he's like,
alright, wind, cease, storm, go away.
And then he says this one
statement, where is your faith?
Why, why do you think he
said where's your faith?
I mean, it's, it was a bad storm.
And Jesus wasn't doing anything
about it until they woke him up.
So does that mean we just need
to go wake up Jesus every single
time that we have a storm?
No, I don't think so.
I think we're missing a
key thought in this text.
Jesus said, at the beginning of
verse 22, Let's get into the boat.
And he told them, let's cross over
to the other side of the lake.
Anybody catch it yet?
Jesus spoke and said they would
make it to the other side.
He didn't say how.
He didn't say if it was
going to be smooth sailing.
He didn't say if there was going to be
a good storm or a bad storm or if they
were going to, you know, whatever up.
He just said we're going to
make it to the other side.
How many times do we read God's word?
We see God will take care of us.
Matthew 6, seek first the kingdom of
God, and everything will be provided for
you, meaning your necessities of life.
Do we hear that?
Yet when the storms come,
we go, God, where are you?
And God's like, I already told you
I was going to take care of you.
I already told you we're going
to make it on the other side.
I just didn't tell you how.
And if you're anything like me,
we like to know the details.
But faith is seeing what God
sees, even though we don't see it.
God knew they would make
it to the other side.
They struggled to have faith, to believe.
Does anybody find themselves
in the feet of these disciples?
Do you struggle in faith?
I want to comfort you.
I do, at times.
But what is God's Word telling us?
That we need His Word.
His Word is what guides and directs us.
And we need to ask this question,
what is our faith founded on?
Is it founded on Christ and His word?
Or is it founded on our hope
of knowing all the answers?
Are we trying to choose self
helps and books and people that
aren't godly in their wisdom?
Or are we choosing God's
word and God's godly wisdom?
Are we acting on it?
Or are we acting on the things
that we have control on?
So Jesus is saying this
question, where is your faith?
Where is your faith?
And so I want to pose that to you
as we go into a time of invitation.
I believe invitation is one of the
most critical pieces of a message.
Here's the reason why.
Again, we can sit here all day and you
can hear everything I said and say, Amen.
Because look at what those disciples said.
That's basically what they said.
They said, Amen, let's get in the
boat, let's go to the other side.
We can say, Amen, every single Sunday.
Yet, walk away and do nothing.
So, I believe imitation is important.
So this is what imitation is.
We typically lead you through imitation.
We'll take some time where I'll
just, I'll just lead you and
say, Hey, let's pray over this.
Let's pray and ask God this.
Let's seek God.
And here's my challenge.
Don't leave here without
saying, Lord, seek my heart.
Change my life.
And allow me
to Don't do it.
So there's two questions I
want to challenge you with now.
And then we're going to
take some time to pray.
What in, when you rethink about your
foundation of your life, what in the
foundation of your life needs to be
fixed so that you don't keep doing
patchwork on the cracks of your life?
And then when you look at this
story, look at the two men.
Which one are you?
Are you the wise person that applies
spiritual truth to your life, or are
you the foolish person that refuses to
apply that spiritual truth to your life?
Don't wait for eternity
to figure that out.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we thank you, Lord, for today.
We thank you so much, Lord, for your
word, because your word is truth.
And when we dive deep down into this
story, Lord, we see you working.
We see you helping us understand
that we, each one of us in
this room, is building a house.
We're building a life.
We're building a family, and
we're building a ministry.
And Lord, because of that, we
need to have the right foundation.
And Lord, I am praying right now that
every person in this room is having an
open heart and an open mind to ask that
question about where their foundation is.
So Lord, guide us in
this time of invitation.
So I want you to just sit right there
with your eyes closed, and I want
you to just begin to process it now.
I want you to ask this
question to yourself.
Ask this honest question.
Have I built my life on
the rock or the sand.
I'm just gonna give you maybe a
minute just to process through
that and ask God if you built
your life on the rock or the sand.
So take some time to pray.
While you're sitting there,
many of you are probably just
like me as I was praying.
You feel like maybe there's some
areas of your life that you have
and there's areas that you haven't.
And so I want to challenge you right now.
So just take some time to pray, and
I want you to begin to cast those
areas of your life over to the Lord
and say, Lord, I want to build this
area of my life on your foundation.
On your truth.
On your word.
So just, right now, begin to just speak
those things to the Lord about what areas
maybe you're not giving to the Lord, and
that He needs to be the firm foundation.
So take some time to do that.
Okay, now, my guess is you also came
up with some areas of your life where
Jesus has been your firm foundation.
And I think this is a time where
you just pray and you praise God.
Just take some time to
praise God and say thank you.
Thank you for being the rock
in my life in this area.
So take some time to just praise,
if you need to lift your hands to
do that, just praise and thank God.
Take some time to pray and
thank him for the areas that
he's been a rock in your life.
The
last thing I want to share is
you're sitting there and you're
thinking and you're processing.
It's this reality that you may have
walked into this room not knowing
where your foundation was in.
What it was in.
If it was in Christ or if
it was in your control.
So I want to challenge anybody.
In this room, that God may have revealed
that your foundation has not been in
Him, that you've never truly given your
life to Christ, that today you can.
I want to share this with you, that Jesus
Christ, God's Son, was sent to this earth
to die in your place because God has
reminded us and revealed to us that we
are all sinners, falling short of God's
glory and our need of grace and mercy.
So Jesus took our place so that
we could have a new life, that we
could have a firm foundation in the
midst of the storms of our life.
And I want to challenge you,
if you've never given your life
to Christ, to do that today.
How do we give our lives to Christ?
I believe it's by admitting your
need for Him, admitting that you're a
sinner, admitting that you need Christ
in your life as a firm foundation.
I believe it's repenting of that sin,
turning from it, and accepting God's gift
of salvation and the Spirit of God that
will live inside you to walk alongside
you in the midst of these storms.
And it's to begin to then act.
So again, the first two are admitting
and repenting, but the next one is acting
and living that life out for Christ as
you grow in a relationship with Him.
So if you want to give your life
to Christ today, those are the
three things that you can do.
You can sit there right where
you are and just begin to tell
God, I need you to surrender your
life to Him and say yes to Jesus.
But I'll tell you what that action
piece is, is telling somebody about it.
So when we get done with the invitation
today, when we get done with service.
If you've given your life to Christ
and you want to know more about
how to give your life to Christ,
to be a firm foundation in your
life, please come and talk to me.
Share with me your faith in Christ so that
we can walk alongside you and help you
grow to know Jesus more and more and more.
So I'm going to pray for us and then
we're going to stand and worship.
Lord Jesus, we know that you are God and
that you move according to your word.
And Lord, I pray today that
we are acting on that word.
Lord, that there's many
in this room today.
I'm praying that they are
leaving with a solid foundation
in all areas of their life.
Lord, I'm praying that they truly
surrender the areas of their lives
that, that they have maybe taken
back control or the, the, you
desire to be in control of Lord.
I pray that you are changing.
Marriages, when we think about homes,
we're changing personal lives, Lord, where
you're leading people to faith in Christ,
you're changing ministries, which means as
this church continues to seek you, Lord,
that we'll see a revival happen because of
our firm foundation in you and your word.
God, that's what we believe,
and we believe in faith knowing
that this is your church.
These are your people, and you desire
to have a relationship with them,
and with every person that they
know, and everyone in this community.
And Lord, I know as a pastor, I want
to be a part of that, and I pray that
everyone in this room wants to be a part
of every person coming to know Jesus.
Lord, give the people in this
room, who haven't given their
lives to you, the faith to do it
today, and take that first step.
Lord, pray that they boldly proclaim
you, and they share with me that
they've given their lives to Christ.
But Lord, lead us to worship today
as we finish up service, Lord, allow
our hearts to be abandoned to just
whatever you desire to lead us to do,
and we pray this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
Alright, let's stand,
let's finish the worship.